ZZZKBot - Install
=================

Updated:    7th September 2016


The following steps are required to build ZZZKBot from source code:

These instructions are simply the same as how you would compile BWAPI
4.1.2's ExampleAIModule project from source. Note that later versions of
Windows should probably work too but I have not tested them.

1. On Windows (preferably Windows 7 SP1), install Microsoft Visual Studio
2013 (preferably Microsoft Visual Studio Express 2013 for Windows Desktop;
note that this is registerware, i.e. it can be downloaded for free from
Microsoft without registering, but after 30 days it will prompt you and
require you to register (free of charge) to be able to continue using it).

2. Install BWAPI 4.1.2 to a path that does not contain spaces. I am not
sure whether the following instructions will work if you install it to a
path that contains spaces - I haven't tried it.

3. Set the environment variable BWAPI_DIR to the path of where you installed
BWAPI 4.1.2 to. Note: the project does not depend on any other libraries,
does not reference any absolute file paths, and when the bot is run it does
not require any hard-coded file paths (e.g. it doesn't matter what directory
you have installed Starcraft: Broodwar to).

4. In Windows Explorer, double-click the ZZZKBot.vcxproj file.

5. Change the drop-down from "Debug" to "Release".

6. From the menu, select: BUILD -> Build Solution. It should build with no
errors/warnings.

7. A folder ZZZKBot/Release/ should be automatically created when building.
The output is a single DLL file in that folder named ZZZKBot.dll.

The following steps are required to install ZZZKBot:

Note: ZZZKBot is intended to support being run on Windows XP SP3 and later
versions of Windows up to and including at least Windows 7 SP1 (later
versions of Windows such as 8.1, 10 are hoped to work but have not been
tested, and Vista has not been tested either). It has successfully been
compiled on Windows 7 SP1 and the resulting DLL worked fine when run on both
Windows XP SP3 or Windows 7 SP1.

1. Install BWAPI 4.1.2 if you haven't already (and its dependencies, e.g.
Broodwar).

2. The only file required is the DLL named ZZZKBot.dll from the
ZZZKBot/Release/ folder (ZZZKBot is not comprised of any other/optional
files when running it). Rename the DLL if necessary. Some bots including
ZZZKBot tailor their play according to the opponent player name (possibly
combined with the opponent race). ZZZKBot.dll should normally be the bot's
official filename in environments where only the latest version of each bot
are run and bots are updated frequently. Broodwar has a 24 character limit
for the name of a player. To facilitate other bots being able to recognise
ZZZKBot, officially, I suggest to use "ZZZKBot" (do not change the
case-sensitivity of these letters and do not shorten it) as its name in the
game lobby where feasible, or if you want to include the version info in the
filename (which could enable bots to know exactly which version they are
playing against, and detect/distinguish version changes) I would use the
first "-" character to enable bots to separate the name part from the
version part. E.g. for version 1.0 for AIIDE 2015, rename it to
ZZZKBot-1.0.dll or ZZZKBot-AIIDE2015.dll or ZZZKBot-AIIDE15.dll and use
"ZZZKBot-1.0" or "ZZZKBot-AIIDE2015" or "ZZZKBot-AIIDE15" respectively as
its name in the game lobby. If necessary, a different separator such as "_"
could be used instead of "-" in the filename and player name, or omitted
entirely (e.g. "ZZZKBot1.0" or "ZZZKBotAIIDE2015" or "ZZZKBotAIIDE15"),
although this would make it harder for bots to recognise each other. ZZZKBot
does not currently support playing as more than one race, but for bots that
do and if you have different instances according to its race (in the same
environment), or if you want to include the bot's race in the filename and
player name for whatever reason, I would append a separator character then a
code for the race ("Protoss"/"Terran"/"Zerg"/"Random" if it fits, otherwise
"Prot"/"Terr"/"Zerg"/"Rand" if it fits, otherwise "P"/"T"/"Z"/"R"), e.g.
"SomeOtherBot-1.2.3-Prot" or "SomeOtherBot-CIG2017-P".

3. If the machine where ZZZKBot will be run does not have Microsoft Visual
Studio 2013 installed, you will need to install the 32-bit variant of the
"Visual C++ Redistributable Packages for Visual Studio 2013" if not already
installed (vcredist_x86.exe (i.e. 32-bit) is only one you need for Windows
XP). Currently it can be downloaded from Microsoft's website at:
https://www.microsoft.com/en-au/download/details.aspx?id=40784

4. Install and run the DLL with BWAPI version 4.1.2 as you would normally do
for any other BWAPI AIModule bot, e.g. copy the DLL to the following folder
(create parent folders if necessary):
<Starcraft folder>/bwapi-data/AI/
and configure its path via the "ai" setting in:
<Starcraft folder>/bwapi-data/bwapi.ini
then run e.g. ChaosLauncher and inject as usual, etc. Notes: currently,
ZZZKBot only properly supports playing as the Zerg race. ZZZKBot does not
require any other DLLs apart from BWAPI 4.1.2 (it does not use BWTA2/BWTA
at all). ZZZKBot itself does not use disk I/O (i.e. has no logic to read or
write files - not even log files). It tailors its behaviour to particular
opponents based on in-game names of the opponent bot(s).

=============================== End of file ================================
